# Day 2 with Swift types

So, it's day #2 with [100daysOfSwift](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100) and today we're going to cover some Types in swift. We'll be looking at:

### Arrays

The array is a collection of values stored as a single value. A succinct description and in Paul's course it even uses my goto example when talking about any collection, the Beatles. Arrays must be of the same type and so here we could be adding each Beatle as a person type, or simply as a String. I don't want to copy Paul's example exactly because that would be boring but I am going to rehash the essence of the lesson being that we're going to demonstrate the code to build up a simple array.

```swift
// create some constants for the guitar strings note at the zero
// fret/nut for a standard a440 tuning.
let string1 = "E"
let string2 = "A"
let string3 = "D"
let string4 = "G"
let string5 = "B"
let string6 = "e"

// create the array object, guitar which houses all the single
// strings we have created above
let guitar = [string1, string2, string3, string4, string5, string6]
```

Arrays are zero indexed like many other computer programming languages and if you trigger an arrayOutOfIndex error your app will crash which is still better than not crashing and having wild and unpredictable behaviour, but it does make beginner programmers feel all salty about the situation.

### Sets

A set is often confused with an array. Where they differ is for a set the result is an unordered but unique list. You cannot reference a sets elements by number like an array and it is not possible for an element to repeats.

```swift
var setCollection = Set([1,2,3,4,5,4,3,2,1]) // will return 1,2,3,4,5 when printed
```

Above we can see the declaration and syntax related to using a Set and how it will ignore duplicate items.

### Tuples

Another collection type that allows you to group several _things_ as one _thing_. The values of each attribute of a tuple can be changed but the type cannot. Let's see some of this in code form.

```swift
// declare a tuple and set values
var person = (first: "John", last: "Lennon")

// prints the values
print(name.first)
print(name.0)

name.first = "Winston" // note we can set the value as long as it has the same type, here a String.
// prints the values
print(name.first)
print(name.0)
```

### Dictionaries

Yet another collection type. The dictionary allows `key:value` pairing similar to what is found in other languages such as Python. Syntactically we declare a dictionary using square bracket notation and each field has a key and a value separated by a colon.

```swift
var myDict = ["name": "Paul McCartney", "instrument": "Bass"]

print(myDict["instrument"]) // prints Bass
```

Dictionaries can be augmented by providing a default value because where we interrogate a dictionary for a value where the we have none we will have a return of `nil` to use a default we can use the following pattern.

```swift
var drinks = ["John": "lager", "Paul": "heavy", "George": "gin", "Ringo": "vodka"]

print(drinks["john"])
print(drinks["Brian"]) // would return nil
print(drinks["Brian"], default: "unknown") // returns unknown
```

### Empty collections

We've seen above some collection types and we've typically seen some initial values but it is entirely possible to want, or to create an empty collection. There are some variances on the syntax used between collection types.

```swift
// empty dictionary collection
var people = [String: String]()

// empty array collections
var results = [Int]()  // empty Int array
var names = [String]() // empty String array

// empty set has a little syntactic twist with the
// addition of type definition being placed in
// between angled brackets
var numbers = Set<int>()
var words = Set<String>()
```

That about cover the summary of material for day2
Best wishes, be well.
