I am a fairly seasoned programmer. I've been doing it for years. By now you're probably assuming I think I'm pretty good at it, I wouldn't make such a claim because I believe that `keeping yourself the idiot` maintains the hunger for more learning but also because the older I get the more convinced I am that I may have adult ADHD. I Have all the signs, I can struggle with focus, I fidget, I feel I have to multitask, I often lack the patience required to absorb stuff so tend to feel I have a wide surface knowledge and that's about it. In fact I often lack any patience at all but I''m pretty good at hiding it.

I am collecting an evidence timeline for the purpose of pursuing confirmation of any ADHD or not, but that's not the point of these posts. I want to learn Swift!

I have never done a 100 days challenge before, I've seen plenty of them online. To be honest I love the community spirit of it but I seldom post on the threads because I feel I have nothing fresh to add. I've decided to do one for two reasons, first I want to experiment with how I learn, or more precisely how I focus (or not) and drift into frustration and abandonment. Second, I've had a Mac for years and never bothered to learn to develop for it, I've always done BE, Web and JS/TS after a fairly lengthy stint as a C++ programmer for a finance org.

I've decided not to do the daily post stuff not because I lack any commitment but that a simple list of topics as a daily guilt-post feels like I would lose some of the joy. Actually I had started the daily posts on here and got to day 5 but I am about to delete them. They're verbose, lack any fresh programmatic insight and they're just words to post for the sake of posting. Nothing more than some contrived code snippets and a hollow following of process. What I'm hoping to do with these posts is document a timeline for myself, I may even need it if this ADHD stuff leads anywhere medically but I'll try not to make it all about that, it will be mostly summaries of the swift stuff as a weekly post (5 days).

## Learning in week 1

OK, so like a typical lacking in focus student learning outside of work, I surrounded myself with plenty materials so I had an easy escape route once frustrations kick in. I've bought several kindle books, a few Udemy courses and there's a couple of paperbacks in the Amazon basket too waiting the next round of clicky impulse purchasing in the pursuit of hyperspeed learning.

**Why the hurry?** In all honesty I couldn't tell you. That's the question isn't it? I can tell you I can barely watch a video at 1X speed, or read a book like I have just had a visit from the Cadbury's caramel rabbit.

**What material did I cover?** I couldn't help myself and I did refer to a few sources:

- I completed almost the first half of Angela Yu's high selling iOS course. She's quite engaging but I felt like I had copied and pasted some apps in a monkey-see, monkey-do fashion. The preprepared UI's made me feel like I'd learned nothing. It's true the option was there to clone a different version of the repo and build the UI's from scratch but waving a shortcut at a shortcut junkie is only leading to one outcome.
- I completed the first 5 days of Paul Hudson's 100 days of swift. Small 60 second video lessons, trick question quizzes. After week 1 I feel like I'd recall some Swift syntax and not fall into some very basic pitfalls but we're nowhere on the building an app ladder as yet, understandably so! I like Paul, his voice doesn't irritate. There's no fluff.
- I started building an Uber clone because I feel like I need a 'real project' as well. Probably the reality is that I'm caving into a scattergun approach to learning resources, but we'll see how long it lasts.
- I managed to squeeze in 5-6 chapters of [mastering Swift 5.3](https://www.packtpub.com/product/mastering-swift-5-3-sixth-edition/9781800562158) also because I had a coronavirus vaccination and felt pretty crappy afterwards so I did some reading instead.

**What did I learn?** Subject wise, I covered:

- The basics of variables, I made comparison to myself with JavaScript between `var and let` and `let and const`
- Some basic syntax about functions such as external parameter names and internal parameter names, the underscore to omit param names and so on.
- I learned about some collections like arrays and tuples, that swift allows you to index a tuples content for reference to its value which seems like quite ugly code.
- Typical operators, conditions and syntactic sugar such as combined operators like `+=` and the like. These are much the same as can be found in most modern mainstream programming languages so that familiarity is sort of nice, welcomed at least.

**What did I learn about me?** Most of my suspicions are true :) I'm a nightmare when it comes to patience. I also learned that I am more aware of the scattergun approach that I might have thought as I've identified it and called myself out as early as week 1.

Till next time.
