My second post here on this platform and I did it. I procrastinated a bit. In my defence it was after I was legitimately interrupted for a day or two, I tried to bounce back by doing days 6, 7 and 8 all in one day, then by following a pile of iOS developers on twitter and I made the mistake of engaging with them on the topic of UIKit Vs SwiftUI.

### The case for the defence

So, in my first post I promised I was going to stay the track with the Paul Hudson 100 days of Swift and that has taken a small impact, but hear me out. Whilst engaging with some notable iOS developer accounts on subjects surrounding `UIKit`, `SwiftUI` and even `flutter` I was asked for the _why_ I was learning. This struck a chord with me where I realised I am indeed a serious tutorial merchant, I am always taking some course or other so inadvertently I am a certificate collector. But, _why_ am I learning Swift and iOS development? I can't fully say in all honesty it's for professional reasons as I work in management and although I wouldn't be against working as a developer again and on iOS based projects there is no time pressure there.

But, hold on, where am I going with this? During those conversations on Twitter it was a response I received that went along the lines of "if you are learning for work immediately then UIKit for sure, as there is still so much of it out there. If its for fun, for pleasure and hobby then SwiftUI all the way. It's also likely to be the base of many future projects so a good future bet" now I cannot say whether that future bet is solid or not, but what I can say is yes, learning Swift is supposed to be a fun and hobby based pursuit rather than a workaholic extension to my day in the first instance and any professional doors opened from it in tandem with the work I do on web apps and hybrid mobile apps then that's good and well.

### So, you're a quitter then?

Yes, I am `quitting` my 100 days of Swift to replace it with the 100 days of SwiftUI. I guess an early wobble is the best wobble. Now the first 12 days of introduction are to the Swift language so these 12 days worth I am going to cram into one week given I've covered most of the material already but I wont skip completely.

Anyway, the ADHD business, I have done nothing to pursue that largely because the doctors surgeries are still limited access, face to face appointments are for the more sick and needy people than myself and the place is jam packed with vaccine related business. It's something I will be looking into more at the earliest opportunity. However, anecdotally I have a retired family friend who was a clinical psychiatrist and when broaching the subject I could see the slightly amused up turns of a controlled smile and a nod that said "I wouldn't be surprised" and "you really should see about that" at the same time.
